
# What is Terraform and Why to use it?

Terraform is the **infrastructure as code** offering from HashiCorp. 
It helps with the following:
- **Automation** of infrastructure (AWS, GCP, Azure and many more)
- Keep your infrastructure in certain **state** (Complaint)
- Make your infrastructure **auditable**
	>Keep infrastructure change history in version control system like git

  

## How to download Terraform?
[Download Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html)


## Useful Commands

- $ **terraform console** : **Load** all the **.tf** files alphabetically and open terraform CLI.
- $ **terraform init** : **Initialise** the working directory containing Terraform configuration files.
- $ **terraform apply**:  It is used to **apply** the changes required to reach the desired state of the configuration, or the pre-determined set of actions generated by a **terraform** plan execution plan.
### Want to know more about a terraform command?
``` $ terraform --help <COMMAND_NAME> ```

## Useful Keywords
- **variable**: Declare any variable
	> **type** : The type of the variable _(Deprecated)_. It could be string, map, list, object.
	> **default** : The default value of the variable
	**example** 
	``` 
	variable myvar { 
		type= "string"
		default= "Hello from Terraform"
	}
	```
- **provider**:  _Provider_ is responsible for the lifecycle of a resource: create, read, update, delete.
- **resource**: _Resources_ are the most important element in the Terraform language. Each resource block describes one or more infrastructure objects, such as virtual networks, compute instances, or higher-level components such as DNS records.
